I mean they left Odessa in about 1903 as a result of her eldest sister
witnessing the beheading of her husband. It was a wretched scenario.
Can you say more about that?
I will because it was part of my life as a child. Aunt Bella who was a very very
beautiful woman. I've seen photographs of her as a young woman and she was
strikingly beautiful. Had married a Cossack, a non-Jew who was apparently also,
in fact I've got some photographs of their offspring in that book which you
will see later. And as the Cossacks did not want their people to
So to make an example he was beheaded in their cellar in front of her when she
was carrying Grisha who was then about five months pregnant she was and she
graphically told me the story of how and she spoke with a very Russian accent.
They held his head and he had long beautiful hair and they had a
huge scimitar and the head came off and the blood went up to the ceiling all
over me. I was carrying Grisha. Little Lardle sitting on her lap aged
about five heard this story so many times I got used to it. It was quite
something. I think this was the final straw which said get the hell out.